### Learning about Git and Github
I've spent quite a while trying to understand Git and Github since I am a tutor and need to explain it to other people. This is the basic explanation: 

## Git and Github are different things
Git is a software, you download it and install it on your computer. Github on the other hand, is just a website that houses all the files and folders for your projects and makes them available to you anywhere online. So when you download and install Git, you are installing a file management system. Its like using Microsoft Word, where if you write something you can press undo multiple times to undo what you've done. Word keeps a history of what you've written and the order in which you did it. Git takes this to the next level.

With Git you can make what are called **Commits**. This is basically like creating a duplicate copy of the *entire* Word document so you have two versions. This is done when you want to save your Word document in it's current state and continue editing another copy. Then you can always restore to the previous version if you need to. Unlike Word, you don't need to create duplicate files when Git keeps the commit history for one file. Its like having a stack of papers where every piece is a commit. 

Git goes beyond that with what are called **Branches**. When you create a branch, you again are making a copy of the entire document, but its like a new stack of papers where commits can be added. Git has a default branch named main that all other branches start from. You can also create branches from branches. So with two branches, you have two stacks of papers with different commit histories. This is helpful if you want to test out adding a new feature to the project but don't want it to break what you've already made. When you are down with the branch, you can merge it with the branch it came from. Which is like trying to shuffle two stacks of papers together. During this process you will need to choose with changes to keep from the old and new branches so that they can merge back into one branch. 

To use Git within a folder, you will need to initialize it through the command line or with helpful software like Github Desktop. It will create a file in the folder that is hidden, so to see if Git is being used in a folder you will need to enable hidden files in the file system. You do not need to initialize Git in every folder, just the main one of the project. You can only have one hidden .git file in one folder, even if it has nested folders inside of it. Multiple initializes of Git within a folder will cause bugs and cause unending headaches when trying to commit. 

## Using Git with Github
Whether you are making commits through the command line, or through easy to use software like Github Desktop or Visual Studio Code, you can upload every commit you make to Github. On Github you will need to create a **Repository** for the project. The repository will house all your files and folders along with your commit history. The trick is connecting the new repository you made with the local project folders on your desktop. There are multiple methods of doing so but one of the simplest is using the command line to connect a local project folder to an a blank repository or to clone the repository which will make a copy of it and then transfer it into a blank local folder. Visual Studio Code makes this easy with the click of a button but knowing the steps and commands is necessary for advanced Github management. 

## Working on Teams
Github makes it easy for multiple teams to work on the same project. They can all clone copies to their local computers, make their own branches and after making changes to that branch, submit what are call **pull requests** to merge their branch with the main branch on Github. If their branch is accepted then the main repository on Github will be changed and others will need to **pull** changes from the online repository to their local copy. After downloading these commits, its like shuffling two stacks of paper and will need to integrate the changes into their version. As expected, with large teams or complicated projects, branches become a necessity so people don't have to download the entire project and instead can work on only parts of the project that can be integrated into other branches. There are alot of job opportunities for people who manage branches, commits and pull requests. 

###In Summary
Github hub is awesome but also very confusing sometimes. Learn the command line, learn the great features that Github offers and you will be well on your way to becoming a Git master. 
